If they're laughing, it's fine. If
they're not, it ain't. This is the
Russell Howard we have never seen
before. When you're low, it leaves you
mentally fragile, but then that makes
you work hard and go again because you
know the excitement you get from making
them laugh. It's an unhealthy treadmill,
but at the end of that treadmill, there
is this incredible cherry. That's what
happiness is. figure out a healthier way
of being the best you without it being
so draining to realize what you have.
There will always be sort of shimmering
lights of hope in in the misery. But
sometimes somebody has to help you find
them. When he died, it was just this
sledgehammer to your heart where you
just go, Jesus, one of the one of the
one of the good souls isn't here
anymore.
Russell Howard. I've watched Russell
Howard on TV for years and years and
years. And of all the podcasts I've
done, Russell and this conversation was
the most stark difference between the
person I've seen on TV and the person I
had a conversation with today. I think
your mind is going to be blown. He's got
a new Netflix show coming out called
Lubricant. And the reason it's called
Lubricant is because he believes comedy
and laughter is the lubricant that
allows us to deal with the pain of life.
And we talk about the pain of his life.
We talk about everything. And in this
conversation, there's more tears.
Recently, I did an episode on this
podcast with Jimmy Carr, and the
resounding feedback we got was, "We've
never seen that Jimmy Carr before." I
have a suspicion, in fact, I know that
people are going to say the same about
this conversation. This is the Russell
Howard we have never seen before. And
it's an incredibly inspiring, valuable,
vulnerable Russell Howard. It's the side
as a Russell Howard fan that I wish I'd
seen more of. I have a feeling you're
going to be really surprised. So,
without further ado, I'm Steven Bartlett
and this is the Diary of a CEO. I hope
nobody's listening, but if you are, then
please keep this to yourself.
I'm funny because of my mom and I'm
determined because of my dad.
You said that, right?
I did say that. Yeah. I felt like that
was the beginning of a riddle. Like you
were a sort of a Gollum figure trying to
understand. Yeah.
Can you explain it to me, please? Um,
my mom is a a warm, twinkly eyed little
lady who is inadvertently funny all the
time, has no idea of her power, is just
naturally
uh bright and joyful. Uh, if you ever
feel that you're kind of getting used to
hotels and the humrum life of, oh, here
we are in another place, um, take my mom
with you. separate rooms and watch her
reaction when she goes into a hotel room
because it reminds you of how you used
to be.
Oh, really?
Jesus Christ. They've got kettles.
They've got tea bags. Look, they've got
a trouser press. Look, like she's so
excited and happy by the world. And
my dad is um a very quiet, unbelievably
determined man who, you know, when we
were kids, we'd sort of he'd have us
mixing cement. Um we'd be sort of like,
you know, building kind of walls with
him, plastering as a kid. I remember
watching my dad plaster and he was
trying to keep this kind of wall up and
he screamed to himself, "Come on,
David." And sort of even at 11, I was
going, "Ah, that's a bit much." Um, so I
have these kind of two very different uh
dominant personalities that kind of
raised me who I love dearly both, but
they are very very different. You know,
my dad challenged me to a press up
competition recently um at a family
barbecue and he beat me. He did um 68.
He did. Yeah. And he's uh uh 65 years
old and
uh yeah, remember this story. This sums
my dad up. U I had a school report when
I was 11 and the teacher said um what
Russell needs to know is that he can't
do everything. And I kind of go home and
you know that moment you give the report
and your dad looks and he goes well this
mean you go well the teacher says I I
can't do everything. He goes why did you
say that? I I just think that I can I
think I can do anything if I put my mind
to it. And my dad goes you got to go
down that school now and tell her that.
So I have to walk back to the school.
You're joking.
Yeah. and I kind of go in and go, "My
dad says I can do anything and you're
not allowed to say that I can't," which
is a pretty, you know, incredible thing
to do, but, you know, made school tough.
So, yeah, very different.
What about brothers and sisters?
I have a brother, uh, Daniel, who's an
amazing human being, very funny. Um, um,
and I have a sister who is an actress
who's, uh, also incredible. Um, they're
very different as well. Um, I'm very
close to my brother, not so much to my
sister. We sort of all my brother we
just played football together as kids
and oddly Kerry is in the same world as
me now and is kind of a BAFTA nominated
actress. She was in um him and her BBC 3
and super talented and yeah a great
human being. The we're they're a lovely
bunch but very strange. My family it's
like being in a Pogue song when you go
to kind of Christmas parties around our
way. Do you know what I mean? Do you
have
It's sort of you know those like I
remember weirdly the funeral of my nan
and granddad.
Um it was separate. It sounded like they
it was a pack
but but I that feeling sometimes when
you go to a funeral and you're so proud
to have the same blood as the people in
the room. I kind of feel that whenever
I'm back with my family in the West
Country. there's there's such a blessy
and energy to them that I adore and feel
so kind of delighted to be part of, you
know, it's kind of
Yeah.
Um Jimmy Carr said something to me which
I've been waiting to ask another
comedian. There's a stereotype that
comedians are funny because they're
depressed. Yeah.
But Jimmy Car said that's wrong. He said
you've really got to ask a comedian who
in their family is sick. M
um because he says that much of his
comedic genius or his desire to please
people came from um trying to make a
family member happy or trying to ease
moments of tension in the family dynamic
when he was younger. Um do you resonate
with that at all?
Yeah. Yeah. Completely. um that
my dad my dad is, you know, is
successful and super serious, but used
to lose his mind watching kind of Billy
Connley or watching Have I Got News for
You. So, he would like howl with
laughter and we sort of figured out the
way to break dad's serious energy was to
make him laugh, you know? So definitely
it was kind of there's no tension if
people are like I've got a line in my
new special which is laughter is the
lubricant that makes life livable and it
it you know it really it soothes
tensions and it's a bandage that gets
over cracks definitely you know and then
it's sort of this thing that you when
you discover you you know you can make
people laugh it's so addictive and you
can literally create your own energy and
like you do an arena there's 15,000
people there you'll orchestr ating this
almost societal orgasm where they're
kind of like lost in laughter together.
It's you feel like a necromancer, man.
It's the best. And I think Jim's right
in that it that initial spark comes from
probably I'm thinking of other comedians
as well as myself. It's sort of that
sense of, you know, like I've got a lazy
eye. So that was a, you know, so I
became funny to deflect and did jokes
about my eyes to get to stop people
looking at them. And then you kind of
realize, okay, this is kind of cool. Or
if you're a bit thick or if you're not
good at football or you don't fit in,
you can kind of
sort of
rebrand yourself in a strange way
through humor. And you can you can
create your own
kind of energy. That sounds kind of
wanky, but do you know what I mean?
Of course I do. Because there's there's
also another stereotype which is that
people who are slightly um slightly
bigger but tend to be really bubbly and
have funny personalities in a comedians
as well which is
would fit that kind of idea that it's a
it's a tool of deflection.
Yeah.
From something else, you know, they
don't want them to focus on or
um you talk about it being linked
heavily linked to self-esteem as well.
And you're
Yeah.
Yeah. What's odd, the further you get
into it, you realize that it's so much
fun doing standup. Um, and it's such a
wild drug effectively because you're
doing these massive gigs in front of
2,000 people and everyone's laughing or
15,000 people or you're in New York,
you're doing a gig in Finland and it you
can't quite get over it and then as a
consequence it's quite hard to sit down
and watch the TV and be normal and um so
you're kind of chasing that sort of high
and it's about the real the real skill
is trying to figure out the sort of work
life balance. you know,
I'm speaking to somebody whose uh house
is above work. But do you know what I
mean? It's like see the only the only
way around it is to sort of integrate it
really.
But like I don't know. I've been doing
standup since I was 18. I remember doing
the first gig and it felt like it was
you sort of discovered a mechanism
through which you can do life that
everything sad, good, happy, weird,
peculiar can go through this sausage
maker and you can then uh understand
life, figure it out. But also that's a
very strange way to to do it because you
you you're
using the stage to kind of um uh dissect
yourself, but the aim is always funny.
But I don't know of a better way to do
it than to kind of make sense of the
world. And the funny thing about all
comics is guaranteed if they find
themselves in a strange situation,
sometimes a heartbreaking situation in
life, there's always a little part of
your brain going could be a bit in this.
And it's that horrible sort of, you
know, sort of disease that we have that
you can't ever truly be there because
there's always a little bit of you,
whether you're Seinfeld or, you know,
Taylor or Bill Burr or Chappelle or
whatever, your brain is going, "Yep,
there's stuff in this." Do you know what
I as you're having the as you're getting
beaten up or whatever your brain I
remember getting mugged in Brighton when
I was 18 and and this this guy shouted
to me come back I'm a police officer he
clearly wasn't and I said no you're not
you're a monster and as I said it I went
that's going to be quite funny I reckon
like but I'm literally running away I'm
terrified but my brain's going yeah
probably build a little bit about that
and it's I think all all comics that I
know have that thing where
reality is always auditioning to find
its way into your set.
Wow.
That could uh that could get out of hand
and you could start willing misfortune.
This is the weird thing. Yeah. Well, but
well, exactly. But it's that's the
problem. Yeah. Well, you haven't got any
jokes or anything. You're just walking
around dressed as a clown going to like
a [__] zoo. There's got to be
something in this. But yeah, you're
right. But it it's sort of about keeping
life open a bit and keeping the third
eye open really probably that's the same
of all creatives where you kind of you
or all people really like you have to
notice the thing the things that niggle
you and if you're talking about them
whether it's you know like in my last
special I had a big bit about kind of
young women selfharming. I couldn't I
was like what? Like one in four women
self harm. And I was like couldn't get
my head around that. And I just knew I
had to talk about it on stage. And
yesterday I saw this lady complaining
because the foam in her cup wasn't at
the top of her cup. And I for the rest
of that morning I couldn't I couldn't
get my head around it. Just how do you
get the confidence to complain about
your foam not being there? And I know
somehow that's going to end up in a show
somewhere. That's the way I kind of
operate really. I sort of see these
little things or and they kind of I make
a note at my phone and they gradually
kind of make their way, you know.
Interesting.
It's like collecting dots from society
and then figuring out later how they
form.
Well, I think that I know Chris Martin
does a similar thing where you just make
little notes of lyrics and Woody Allen
does similar thing. Woody Allen will
just write a load of stuff and then he
puts it in a um a drawer and then when
he comes to write a film, he just gets
the drawer out, empties all these notes
that he's been making for the last 6
months and figures out what the film's
going to be. And I that's a lot easier
than sort of writing from a blank page
because you can then finesse your kind
of thoughts in the field when you're in
the laboratory as it were. You said
something there which I find really
interesting and I think is there's kind
of um almost analogies for life within
which is after you've come off stage to
thousands of people in an arena you then
go home and have to like sit in front of
the TV. Yeah, the the antilimax
dealing with like that consistent high
then low. It feels like a lot
emotionally cuz that's like a huge
adrenaline surge and then even like
physiologically that it feels like that
must be non not natural
have a consequence.
Yeah, Christ that's deep. Let's hope it
doesn't. But yeah, you're right. It's
it's
yeah it every comedian when they're in
the middle of a tour needs a really
really good box set like do you know
what I mean? It's like you need
succession
you need madmen you need something to
get you through because yeah it's sort
of
otherwise like if you're trying to
maintain that high um you know if you're
sort of drinking and you're doing drugs
or whatnot it's going to make it harder
to be
that version. It's kind of like whereas
if you're a musician, you can still sing
the song that they want you to sing if
you're on kind of coke or like or you're
pissed up. It's kind of hard to be a
good comic for a long time
if you're kind of, you know, on drink
and drugs. So yeah, you have to sort of
develop this kind of way of like
reintegrating your life.
But also it's nonsense as well. It's
just it's it's fun makeelie like and and
and also what's important is kind of you
know going for a meal with your wife and
and and hanging out and seeing friends
and and there's joy in that you know and
you see you you you have to you have to
try you have to plan fun. I think that
that's the crucial thing you have to go
right we'll go on holiday and we'll go
to that restaurant and we'll watch this
film because I think like you say it's
the sitting and the and the waiting that
is very difficult to compete with the
the innate rush that you get from
standup
because of what you do professionally.
Do you find it harder to enjoy the
sitting and the waiting and the meal
where you're sat there just you know and
the holiday where you're sat on the deck
chair? Not like I normally what I love
about holidays, I don't know what your
feelings are about them, but by the end
of like 10 days, I'm ready to go back to
my life because holidays remind me of
how much I love my life. And that's the
thing. So, you need to have that kind of
I'm a real sit in the sun, you know,
read some books, um, listen to podcasts,
whatever, and then kind of go again. But
I like the recharge of it. If there was
a if there was a thing where you could
literally plug yourself in like a mobile
phone, I would happily do that on a
beach. Do you know what I mean? And then
kind of go again. But I'm not really a
when I'm in holiday mode, I'm not really
a culture vulture. I'm kind of a sit
down, plunk, book, sun, relax, get ill
because I've been putting it off. Do you
know what I mean? Your body just kind of
gets a bit sick and then you kind of go
again. How about you? Do you are you a
relaxer?
Uh, I think I'm a forced relaxer.
Right. Yeah. Yeah, I think my girlfriend
is the reason why I would go on holiday
and I think she's also the reason why I
would be present on holiday and she's
the reason why I'd go and look at like a
castle or something.
Okay.
But castle
like whatever she would want to look at.
But I think if it was just up to me, I
wouldn't go and I wouldn't do it. And
even if I did go, I wouldn't leave the
hotel room.
Yes,
there's like strong evidence for that
because whenever I've gone to speak in a
country or whatever, I don't leave the
hotel room. I have no desire to do
anything but just be on my phone or
laptop. So, it's pretty sad, but I
think, you know, that's why it's
fortunate that I have a girlfriend.
Yeah. But it's also that thing as well
of like you clearly
with the job you do, you clearly love it
as well.
I love it. Yeah.
So, that's the thing. If you're
fortunate enough, there are so many
there are billions of people who are who
are who, you know, live for the weekend.
Do your job, punch in job you don't
like, get your money, smash your
weekend, try and find your fun. You're
one of the There are so few people in
this world that truly have a thing that
they do that they get paid for that they
adore. You just got to get hold of it,
man. And just like there's no shame, but
it just seems peculiar to the outside.
You got to be how obsessed you you get
about your job or I would get about
standup or there was a documentary about
the comedy store um on uh Sky recently
and I watched it. It was incredible. It
was a beautiful kind of summer's day and
I smashed the whole thing. was one of
the best days I've ever ran in my life
because it was incredible and it evoked
this kind of the comedy store from the
sort of the 70s and the 80s and Jay Leno
and all this and it just you know I was
like we need a time machine we need to
go back to to those times at the comedy
store but because I love standup and I
kind of you know it it's you have to be
with people that understand your
passions because you can't fake it. You
can't go let's go to the castle if
you're not a go to the castle guy. Do
you know what I mean? But you're right,
you can be you can have help to look at
the castle
and then you realize when you get to the
castle that this is a really nice
castle. Yeah. I wouldn't have come had
you not
completely.
Yeah. Yeah.
Um
we're not staying for ages at the
castle, right?
I don't want to It's not an Airbnb. Um
but you started writing. So on that
point of finding your passion and
pursuing it, you started writing jokes
at 14.
Yeah. Wow. You've done your research.
Yeah. Yeah. I had an old computer and uh
yeah, I kind of I watched a Lee Evans
video with my mate my mate Craig. Um,
and uh, it blew my mind because when I
was a kid, stand up really wasn't on TV
that you'd have like a Billy Connley
tape. Uh, you'd have like Have I Got
News for You is a big show or Bottom or
uh, um, Shooting Stars. It was that kind
of era, but Standard wasn't really a
thing. Um, and he was the first sort of
person that I'd seen who kind of was
just funny, wasn't an alpha, and I was
like, "Wow, he like it was mindblowing.
I just I think I could be that's sort of
a bit like how I'm funny like you know
what I mean? And um me and Craig just
wore that tape out. We just watched it
over and over and over and um and I
didn't tell anyone about it. I just
started writing these little kind of
jokes and routines and ideas
that um none of which were any good but
it just became like my little it was
like my little fun place to go to every
so often goes I'm going to write some of
my jokes.
Did you perform them to anybody at that
age? My first ever gig was in Bristol, a
place called Virgin Murf, and I took all
these jokes that I've been writing since
I was 14. And I whittleled it down to my
best 20. And uh I did it there at Virgin
Murth. I followed a guy uh who was
eating a banana with a spoon, singing
the theme tune to the Sweeney um and uh
another bloke that was sort of like his
act was to punch himself in the face.
So, in a sense, it didn't really matter
how bad my 14-year-old stuff was. Um but
yeah, so that was it. And then I kind of
some of it stuck, some of it didn't, but
it was all like I had this bit about
like how did Captain Kirk get through
the entire I wrote this when I was 14,
but how did Captain Kirk get through all
the Star Trek episodes without once
flicking Spock's ears. So that was one
of my first So and I sort of think it's
all right. It's not bad.
It's not bad.
But that was the first joke I ever kind
of told.
And one of the things I found quite
peculiar in your story is that your your
dad um really pushed you to give comedy
a go. Yeah.
And that that seems of all the guests I
sit here with, the thing that has
typically made them um famous or
wellknown or successful,
they their parents were usually quite
against it and would much rather have
them got a quote unquote real job.
Yes.
So what were you doing at the time? Um,
and
yeah, why why was your dad supportive of
it when, you know, at a time when that's
probably not considered a highly
profitable, high chance of success
career?
Yeah, I was working at the RAAC in
Bristol. I had a part-time job. Um, and
I was also doing standup and I because I
started standup at university and then
finished my degree, went home and uh was
just kind of doing probably three gigs a
week
for, you know, 50 quid a pop or like
sometimes 100 quid a pop, that kind of
thing. and um uh alongside this kind of
like shift at the RAC
and it was I was kind of like I'd have a
gig in Lincoln and then I'd have to
drive back to get to work and it was was
kind of like knackering and my dad
basically I remember weirdly not to name
drop but I was talking to Matthew
McConnA about this and it's a very
similar thing where his dad when he told
his dad he wasn't going to become a
lawyer he was going to become a comedian
um um an actor His dad said, "Don't
halfass it." And that was a similar
reaction to my dad. My dad basically was
like, "Right, if you want to do this,
you're 21.
Go for it. Give yourself a year. Don't
stop. Put everything into it." And then
if if it's not happening in a year, you
stop. You get a proper job. And I kind
of I I really respected that option that
he gave me. Do you know what I mean? It
was like, "Oh, be fine." It was like,
"Don't [__] around. properly go for it.
Don't do three gigs a week. Do five gigs
a week. Just do that and then see where
you are in a year. And
um I was at the Edinburgh Festival. I
had about like eight days left from this
kind of like contract and uh my now
agent saw me at the Edinburgh Festival
have like a really good gig and he kind
of said, "Oh, does it always go that
well?" And I was like, "All the time?
You mad?" Yeah. Um, but I was I was
doing lots of sort of improvising and
stuff like that. It was quite hit and
miss back then. And then we went for a
went for a meal. He gave me they used to
have a a thing called the Comedy Network
where it was like 30 gigs around
universities. And that day he booked me
into these 30 gigs that were at the time
I still remember the money. It's £150
per gig spreading out into November. And
but to work for um a comedy company
called Avalon. one of the biggest kind
of comedy producers in the in the UK and
then he signed me and so it it worked
and then I kind of moved to London and
kind of you know slowly kind of kept on
keeping on. I really I liked the
deadline that my dad gave me. Do you
know what I mean? because it was kind of
and I re I really really respected it
and he he had this amazing quote on his
office that that said something like I
think it's by te ts Elliot or te Elliot
that said those who dream by night in
the dusty recesses of their mind wake in
the day to find that all is vanity but
the dreamers of the day are dangerous
for they act upon their visions with
open eyes and make them happen and that
is at the core of my dad so he's kind of
quite disciplined but he also has a [__]
it go for it. But yeah, I just went for
it. But also because I loved it and I
didn't love working at the RSC and I
didn't I'd finished my degree and I knew
what I wanted to do and I just I just
worked my bollocks off, man. I did every
gig you can imagine. But loved it. And
my brother used to come to them. We
traveled down to Brighton to do 10
minutes and uh you know we we'd have to
sort of bunny hop the car to Reading
Station because we didn't fill up. And
you know it was it was real kind of fly
by the seat. your pants stuff, but just
the best. It was the best. It was like
it's the best night out. You go to
Plymouth and you, you know, it's a
six-hour round journey, but you do 20
minutes and it goes great. And then the
promoter says, "Oh, we'll get you back."
And you're like, "Brilliant." I go back
to Plymouth, you know, and um
yeah, it sort of all worked out.
something so interesting when I speak to
successful comedians because it's one of
the like purest forms of like insanely I
say insanely but like if you were trying
to reach a lucrative outcome one of the
like insane paths uh one of this most
insane pure followings of one's passion
because it seems to be the case that you
follow your this passion which doesn't
promise to ever pay you that well Yeah.
Or promises no chance of success and you
follow it for years
50 quid
and then I mean I speak to the
successful
but when you look back on that period of
your life and and if I was to say like
what are the what are the key things
you've you've identified hard work as
one of them but what are like the key
things that made you
get here when so many won't get here?
hard work, luck, um
natural talent,
um perspiration,
um um
but mostly and I would say luck is a big
thing. Luck and hard work are the big
big ones and and taking your opportunity
and having little kind of moments and
always listening to the crowd as well
because it's sort of that thing where
certainly as a live comedian, you can't
[__] people like that. There is you
get a tangible answer every time. The
laughter is yes. The silence is no. You
just can't [__] with that. Like that's
that is the there is a truth
to the to the gig. If if they're
laughing, it's fine. If they're not, it
ain't. And
that's the big thing really. It's just
kind of, you know, all great comedians
listen to the audience because they're
all that matters. And
you can be critically lorded, you can be
um you can win awards, you know, but
ultimately if if you don't hear
laughter, you won't be here. And it's
and you have to have new stuff. That's
the big thing. You have to you have to
make them laugh and constantly
constantly renew yourself. That's the
thing.
Um to kind of to stick around.
You make the audience laugh. They all
burst out laughing. They clap. They say,
"Oh, you're amazing." after the gig,
they say, "We're going to rebook you.
You're the best person ever." Does that
impact your self-esteem in a positive
way?
Yeah, of course. Yeah. Imagine that. But
yeah, it's Yeah, it's the best, man.
It's just But that feeling when you do
the Brighton Comedia and you're 20 and
you do 10 minutes and it goes really
well and Steven Grant, who is still the
booker at the Brighton Comedia, says,
"Oh, we'll get you back for a 20." That
journey home does the best. or someone
says, "Are you going to do the we're
going to get you back to uh to host uh
the Lincoln student night?" And you're
like, "Yeah, do you want to do it
monthly?" "Yes." And you build up this
like little following in Lincoln because
it's
it's it's of course your self-esteem is
just up there because you feel like
you're
a youth team footballer that's breaking
into the first team. That's how it must
feel like. You feel like you're kind of
Phil Fodden and you get these little
opportunities. It's probably similar
thing with footballers like what makes
Phil Foden probably that he has natural
talent. He works his ass off and when
there's opportunities, he's kind of
clinical enough to take advantage of
them. Do you know what I mean? And learn
from mistakes. That's the And comedy is
is constantly about learning from
mistakes because you go you do new
material doesn't work, you you tweak it,
you tweak it, you tweak it until you get
something that that that kind of makes
them laugh. We would one would then
assume that comedians have like just
tremendously high self-esteem
if they're laughing. Yeah. But then what
the the interesting as well is how
quickly it crumbles down if it goes
badly and I've got a friend of mine Al
Pitcher who's a comic in Sweden and we
talk about this a lot where when you're
low it irrespective of what you've done
before you just feel like like such deep
deep shame that you've been unable to
kind of make them laugh. Um, but then
that makes you work hard and go again
because you know the excitement you get
from making them laugh. So it's this
it's an unhealthy treadmill but at the
end of that treadmill there is this
incredible cherry.
Deep deep shame just because it's
embarrassing. It's like you've you've
tried to make like even this I'm really
enjoying this. It's really fun but it's
very serious and we've got like a little
mini audience over there. I can hear and
every little laugh my brain's going
that's good and when they're not I'm
like [__] hell. Yeah, totally. Just
because you sort of feel like you know
it's sort of that weird thing for me
laughter is truth and victory and
silence is failure but then the
interesting thing about that is when you
watch a performance you actually realize
that of of another comic you go wow
there's real power in the silence
actually which took me a long time to
realize cuz I was very initially
just keep it up. Keep it up. Keep it up.
And then you kind of, you know, you you
watch someone like Chappelle, um, for
example, and you go, he's a real master
of the silence. And you don't you're not
you don't lose
him. Do you know what I mean? And you're
not away. You're captivated. But it
takes a really long time to feel that
you've earned the right to captivate an
audience.
But there's captivation in silence. But
who [__] thinks they're captivating?
That's the hardest thing I find is to
kind of you can never know whether
you've been captivating or dull because
the sound is the same. Do you know what
I mean? It's sort of that weird thing of
like
I mean I don't come off stage going was
that captivating or dull.
Um but hopefully Yeah.
It's really interesting. So when when
you have conversations like this because
there is no like there's not huge
amounts of laughter because it's a
serious conversation.
But I love chats like this. This is the
best man. But yeah, go on. I that's what
I was basically asking was um it's when
we when we have comedians come here,
we've had Russell Kane, we've had
obviously Jimmy Carr. Um they do make a
lot of jokes even before we're filming.
I think you know Jack will like put the
microphone close to Jimmy Carr's mouth
and I think he said something like um
just keep it like a fist away and he
said that's what your mother said.
Yeah. And it's almost like a um a
Tourette's of humor which is and I
wonder how you kind of get through life
like that and it almost feels like
uncontrollable.
Yeah. Honestly, that is the best
description of it. Like there's a joke
that I think sums up comedians brains
the best by a brilliant comedian called
u Mitch Hedber. He he's no longer with
us. One of the greatest comedians of all
time. And th this joke sums up the brain
that comedians have where and I'll do
his impression if there's fans of Mitch
out there. Forgive me for this, but it
works better if you try and do it as
him. He kind of goes, I mumble, man. I
mumble a lot off stage. I'm a mumbler.
So, I'll be with my friend and I'll I'll
say something and he'll be like, "What?"
And I'll say it again a little bit
louder and he'll be like, "I didn't hear
you." And then the third time I'll say
it and he still can't hear me. So I'll
say it to him, but now I'm yelling at
him, "That tree is far away."
And that's what it is. It's this thing
in his head that's gone, "Oh, the tree
is far away."
And he It's a joke about the mania. What
you know, I was saying that trees over
there. Look, but it's not. It's further
away than And it's that thing. The
amount of times I've been with my my
wife and you sort of say something and
she go, "What? [__] you." Just I saw
this bin in Primrose Hill the other day
that genuinely said protect um our
birds. This was the line on the bin.
Protect our birds. It was a picture of
like a a bird and respect their way of
life. And I just went into this thing of
like I don't know you show respect to a
[__] but like in my head I'm just
kind of like I didn't know there were
disgruntled chaff inches all over
Primrose Hill. I've never seen that on
the news of just kind of going today a
bird was the victim of of uh you know of
of of somebody attacking it. My brain
was just like worring around with this
and she can see I'm I'm kind of full
zombie eyes just gone. She what you on
about go [__] Ben was resp
that's kind of the the way that comics
brains are. I think that you you spend a
lot of time playing around in your head.
Um and then you kind of go, "Oh, that
that might be something." You know, like
we were the other day um I was talking
to a friend about sperm donors and
somebody had had uh there was this
website and on the you could sort of get
you could get your batch and one of them
was like um uh you know he was like 6'4
Swedish keen reader and um you're really
good job and you're like yeah that's
exactly what I'd say if I was trying to
flog spunk. Do you know what I mean?
You're not gonna kind of go bit of a
loner comes in every Wednesday. We've
had to stop him. But but my point being,
we were having a chat about sperm doning
and my brain was sort of off in this
sort of fantasy land.
Where's the bit kind of like
Well, I just found it so funny that I
don't know any true 6'4 high achieving
intellectuals that kind of just going to
nip out to spaf into a pot. Do
you know what I mean? It doesn't exist.
But
everyone's tinder tinder bias.
Totally. Right. But the point is you you
spend a lot of time in that kind of fun
zone. Um, and that I think that's the
brain that a lot of comics have.
Speaking of that brain spiraling
when after you've done a gig or you
know, can you remember a time where you
you like go on Google, you go on the
Daily Mail or something, you Twitter and
you look at articles of what people are
saying of you and it has a really
profound like negative impact on your
what you think about yourself and you
start to question yourself. I don't do
it. Like I I
came up in the days of uh MySpace and
whatnot. And that was I've never been on
Twitter. I've never been on Facebook. Um
uh I do a bit of Instagram. It's the
same with reviews. It's a very funny
thing. You get a fivestar review and
your brain's like, "Exactly. Yep.
Correct." You get a shitty review and
you're like, "What the fuck?" And you
realize that you have to pay no heed to
it. the only I mean it's flattering and
it's great and it's lovely to get nice
reviews and anyone who says otherwise is
bullshitting but it's with social media
you you you can't
it's too much to kind of
seek validation from people particularly
in the world that we live in at the
minute where you're having to check to
see if you've been correct for you're
not going to be right for everybody and
and some people will not like a joke or
some people s you know you just have to
try and stay where will stay where you
are. So, I I've definitely had times
like that when I was younger and it just
crushes you and you realize actually all
I'm doing is paying attention to the
really negative things that people say.
Um, and there'll be like, you know, one
out of 50 that's super horrible. Um,
rather than focusing on on the kind
things and you realize actually my brain
focuses on the negative and you go,
"Yeah, they're right actually." Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I am that. Yeah.
Yep. Yeah. Correct. Correct. Correct. It
just doesn't make me
uh a better, more functional human
being. It just it hurts. So, I don't do
it. Do you know what I mean? So, I just
kind of But people must have said to
you, your agents, your manager said,
"Oh, get on Twitter. That'll help."
Yeah. Well, what what I do, what I love
about social media is I like making
things and then putting it on there and
so putting clips of standup or the TV
show or whatever. But I I I I don't I'm
lucky. I have a I if I want to do
comedy, I can go to a comedy club
and it's a dark room and I can howl or I
can scream or I can be silly. I can do
whatever I want. It's in a comedy club.
Social media is the worst comedy club in
the world
because people aren't there to laugh. Do
you mean everyone there is there to
laugh and there's this sort of lovely
bonding experience. We're here for a
reason. Whereas social media, some
people, most people in the world are
just up for a hoot. But some people are
are are looking to be to be angry or
they're looking to be enraged. So it
just seems naive to put humor into such
a volatile club. Can you imagine if you
if it was a club called Twitter, right?
Hey, do you want to come play Twitter?
Can you imagine how hard that comedy
club would be? Do you know what I mean?
And so I just don't I don't bother with
it. But I like making things that are
finished and then putting them out. But
I kind of literally email them to my
agent then say, "Oh, we should put this
bit from the show on." I don't even
know. I haven't got my login. I don't
know. Really? Yeah. Yeah.
Way to live.
Yeah. But but but and but and also maybe
it's because I'm 41 and I kind of came
up in an era where standup was still
playing clubs. If you're if you're a
young guy now, um it must be completely
different. And there's loads of kind of
great comics that have kind of come up
through social media um or through
podcasts. And I love that because
there's particularly podcasts, I think,
with like young comics, there's a real
air of punk about it where you kind of
going, I'm not going to wait for TV to
give me anything. I'm going to make my
own thing and then people gravitate to
that. And uh and it's it that's your
thing. And and you you can't mess with
that. Whereas I love that. I love the
fact that people aren't going to be
waiting for TV to anoint them. But I was
very lucky that I was just doing live
gigs. And then when I was 26 after
having done standup since I was 18,
somebody said, "Do you want to go on
TV?" And I kind of went the traditional
path as it were and kind of social media
grew alongside it. But I was never I I
never needed it, which is not to say I
couldn't have been bigger if I
cultivated it, but the content I like
making exists in the club and it's
finished when I do a Netflix special or
it's finished when I do a TV show. It's
it's in a state of flux when I'm in a
comedy club. Um it's in a constant state
of becoming. And the problem with social
media, it makes everything finite and
tangible. And sometimes it's not.
Sometimes jokes evolve or routines
evolve. If you put it out there, it it
might be rubbish or it might be
illconceived. It might upset people. But
by the end of it, having worked in it in
a comedy club, it might say exactly what
you want it to say. It's it's a really
sort of sort of holy space. The comedy
club versus versus Twitter. Why should
you drink Hule? We're going into the
fourth quarter of the year. Diets are
dropping off. We're becoming lazier and
lazier. And what tends to happen when
when our diets dip and we we start to
become less um compelled to go to the
gym is yeah, we get out of shape. We
start to feel low energy. We start to
binge eat bad things. And Hule is the
antidote. It's nutritionally complete.
So, you get everything you need for your
diet in a drink. You get your 20 grams
of proteins. You're going to get your 26
vitamins and vitamins and minerals. It's
low sugar, high in fiber. It really is
the cure to a lot of the health issues
that we see in our personal lives, but
in wider society. If you've never tried
it, all I'll ask you to do is give it a
try. And if you're like me, then you
will like the World Berry, ready to
drink. You'll like the mac and cheese,
which is just selling like absolutely
crazy, unsurprisingly. Um, you'll like
the cinnamon, and you'll like the banana
flavor. Those are my recommendations. I
know a lot of people love the chocolate
flavor. Let me know. Try it. Get
yourself healthy. And send me a message
on Instagram. Tag me on Instagram as
well on your stories if you do drink,
try it out, cuz I I sometimes upload
those tags. and let me know which is
your favorite flavor. Can't wait to hear
from you.
As a comedian, do you ever feel a sense
of imposter syndrome?
Yeah, I think I don't know any great
comic that doesn't talking to Billy
Connley. Billy Connelly used to get
nervous.
Billy Connelly was worried that the
audience wouldn't love him, that he
wasn't worth the evening. Billy
Connelly. If Billy Connelly is thinking
that, then you know, you know, all of us
are. And it's I think if you get to that
stage where you're like, "This is going
to be great. I know it's going to be
great." It probably won't. You have to
have a healthy degree of of of imposttor
syndrome
in order to be the best version of
yourself because you have to kind of,
you know, you have to burst into that
party and be the best, funniest you
because that's what's on the ticket.
That's the the thing. And the only way
to do that is kind of hard work, you
know. Um,
but to to to just rock up, for example,
to an arena tour having done no kind of
warm-ups, it'll be fine. It [__]
won't. Arrogance destroys standup. You
kind of have to you have to go to small
clubs before you start doing a tour to
kind of know you're okay to get rid of
that. And without imposter syndrome, you
uh you don't grow as an artist. Do you
know what I mean?
But it can be deal tough to deal with
psychologically, right? Because is it it
sounds like it must be similar to living
with a sense of like self scrutiny which
can be quite unhealthy. I don't I don't
know.
Yeah. Yeah. What the I guess the
the key thing is to you've got to I
think you have to leave on on your own
terms. Do you know what I mean? as in
stop. There's a there's a while where
this won't be healthy forever because
it's a str it is a strange way to live
with that.
Do you feel that? You feel like it won't
be
Yeah. Yeah. Just because you just kind
of go there would just come a time where
you're you're just you're not as sharp
as you once were and you're like ah fine
I'll just go work in local radio. But
like like not that's not a dig at anyone
in local radio. You do important stuff.
Keep those weather checks coming. But
doing kind of arenas
for a long time is, you know, I've been
doing them since like 2012 now. And that
is a crazy level of pressure because you
sort of do we do I do them in like a
month-long block in the UK and it's kind
of
right okay,
you know, and then you get through it
and then you're like, okay, go again, go
again. And that isn't necessarily the
healthiest way to be forever.
Does it have mental health implications
on you? Because like if you're living
with that kind of internal fluctuation
all the time and that
anticipation that those feelings of
self-doubt that you know they say that
anxiety in particular is like concern
about the future. If you're constantly
thinking about the future, that moment
in that arena is do you feel anxious at
all? Well, the funny thing is the only
time you don't feel anxious is when
you're doing the uh when you're doing
standup, but weirdly that's the that's
the rest bite. Um, but the leading up to
it, it's nerve-wracking, but as soon as
you step on the uh on the stage, you
kind of you know exactly what you're
going to do and it's fun. It's the most
fun in the world. And then it's the but
the leading up to it and the afterwards.
Was that right? Was that fine? It was
good. Right. Fine. You know, I think you
sort of just make your peace with it.
And you like you say it's it's me it
leaves you mentally fragile but I don't
know of another way of doing it.
Do you have you suffered with anxiety
though?
Oh yeah massively. Like it's sort of but
I think it's sort of that thing like
right I have these gigs. If I don't do
this work I'm going to look like a fool.
People are going to boo me. There's
going to be anger. Blah blah blah blah.
So you go. So that fear drives you to
write and perform and get a show that's
good enough. Right. And I've not found
anything that was a useful motivator.
But like you say, it's a tough way of of
being. Like Johnny Wilkinson, I remember
seeing this about him. Johnny Wilkinson
kicked the uh winning um I don't know
rugby, but the winning
World Cup kick.
World Cup kick. Yeah. Right. Um and as
the ball sort of soared over, apparently
he said to himself, his brain went, "You
nearly missed that." as it went over
like and he's won the World Cup and the
next day he was training and he was
kicking goals again to ensure that he
didn't make that mistake and
unfortunately
for him that's what makes him
magnificent you know what I mean and it
and I think it's sort of that thing
where you go the older you get you can
try and adapt it and try and figure out
and you know and we're all in a constant
state of becoming as regards our sort of
mental health and trying to
um figure out a healthier way of being
the best you without it being so
draining. But he scored the winning
goal, the World Cup, you know, and it's
sort of
it's kind of shitty, but he but but that
that determination is what sort of made
him. And it's kind of
I guess the thing is it's about kind of
ensuring that you have enough kindness
to yourself around that so that you kind
of give yourself a break from time to
time
and that the overall picture is happy
that Yeah. Yeah. But but but I don't
know of a a better motivator than fear
to make good stuff. Like if it if it
exists. I mean what do can you recognize
that? Do you have what what is there
another thing that you have?
I I guess excitement if you could turn
fear into excitement that would be a
healthier way of doing it.
Yeah.
But I just don't find it as oh yeah so
much fun because we'll go there and it's
going to be great.
But then you wouldn't do the prep,
right? As you say, if I excited, I
wouldn't I'd probably neglect.
Well, that would be the thing. So that
So you'd have like six months of joy.
Yeah.
And then you do the thing. It would be
[__] awful. And then whereas at least
this way you have six months of tension
and then you have joy and then the kind
of joy lasts throughout the tour
and then after the tour
and then after the tour you go back to
fear
to get there. I but I don't know like
it's but I I don't have the answers and
I I I don't know what works for other
people. But for me it is that and it's
something that I'm trying to address
which like
living in fear too much
living in fear too much or putting too
much responsibility on the thing but I
don't know of another way and like you
know and I'm sort of you know seeing
people and trying to figure it out but I
don't know
what motivates you for example.
It's a I completely get it. It's a
trade-off, right? If you want to achieve
the goal, you need this. Unfortunat I
always think this. I think I think
everything has a cost.
Yeah.
Um and everything good in my life that I
love
comes with a cost. It might be it could
even be a financial cost or it could be
some other type of sacrifice. And those
that have risen the highest in certain
professions, it's so obvious to see the
cost in their lives. It's much more
obvious than everyone else. So, I sit
here with my guests. I see it with Eddie
Eddie Hearn. He's built the number one
boxing promotion company,
but he never ever sees his wife and
kids. Yeah.
And he's like it's like unsatisfiable as
a human.
Yeah.
You know, that's why his book is called
Relentless. And I well that's the clear
quote unquote cost potentially. Um and
yeah, with what you're saying being an
arena performer,
one would think that you spend a lot of
time in a certain mental place which is
uh not always great.
Yeah. But then I was just thinking then
I was thinking about
the the fascinating thing about life is
you have these so for example we did 10
nights of the Alberta Hall.
Oh wow.
Which is like a world record. It's
mental. It was extraordinary that kind
of little me that used to sit in the
back of mom and dad's um Ford uh fiesta
watching the raindrops go down the
window that I did 10 nights at the Alba
Hall is mental. Um and it was fun. It
was brilliant. was great, but it was
like you're playing snooker, you know,
get all the reds, then then knock the
rest of them down, done. You know what I
mean? But it's that lovely kind of
controlled snooker brain. Joke, joke,
joke, joke, joke, joke, joke, joke. End
of the show. Hooray. Yeah. Go again.
Right. But it was, but it was fun that
exists from a sort of dopamine level on
a very similar level as being on my stag
with my cousins in Vegas and hearing my
cousin Lewis tell a story. And so I
think it's my way of figuring it out is
to have as many of those
dopamine hits of joy, whether it's good
food, good company, um, travel, books,
music, whatever.
So that you're kind of constantly
feeding yourself like because if you
just that's the big realization I've had
that if you only try and get happiness
from work for me it doesn't work to sit
around and and hope that your life
outside of work can compete with this
joy that you get from work. The only way
you can do it is to surround yourself
with people that you think are fantastic
or experiences that you think are
fantastic. And it can even be little
things. It's just like, you know,
like we we did some gigs in Dubai and we
went to a water park every day and I'm
41 and I went with my my friends who are
all big big lads and we were on this
rubber dingy and we kept going down this
slide. We honestly it was it was the
joy, the silliness of the day
led into the the fun of the gig. And I
remember reading a thing about Chappelle
that Chappelle when he's on tour, he
brings his pals. He brings friends along
so that he's
he's sort of living
the joy of life is connected with the
joy of work. He's never sort of sat
backstage with his notepad kind of
waiting for an hour and a half to go on.
And that's something I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to kind of involve people
more in in kind of work and be less kind
of you need to stay away. I need to
concentrate, you know,
to blend the two. And you kind of
totally Yeah. And you talk about this in
the same way with you at the a couple of
moments ago you talked about living for
the week and then kind of like
compartmentalizing that and then having
your life on the weekend and how that
doesn't feel like the best way to live
either because you have five days of
misery and then two days of like pissed
you know getting trying to find the
but I think also the pandemic has
recalibrated a lot of people that you
actually go we were kind of locked away
from each other and we were locked away
from experience and the happiness of
something appearing from nowhere. Those
magical nights down the pub or watching
football or listening to music or having
a barbecue with friends where a a moment
unintentionally becomes a memory. And we
were kind of robbed of those social
moments that created memories because we
were sat with this disease lurking, not
knowing where our lives were going to
become. We kind of felt like we were
sort of immune from something this this
heavy happening to us. And it didn't. It
happened to everybody. And it feels like
because of that
we we are now kind of coming out of the
cave as it were with a real desire to
um
find as much
majesty in the universe as possible.
that that I genuinely feel a lot of
people like audiences post pandemic like
even British audiences who are you know
by a stretch the the the toughest crowds
in the world like by a stretch is that
that lovely English come in [__] make me
laugh you know what I mean whereas like
in America they're they're already up
like you do comedy clubs in America they
stand up as you walk in you know what I
mean and but but British crowds now
because people are people want
connection and they want experience
because it was kind of robbed of us. So,
um it feels like it could be a a really
glorious time and like like you were
saying with the the tour that you've got
planned. What a fantastic way of doing
that rather than just uh I could just do
you could just do a Q&A but you're
putting you know you're making what
sounds like a really pulsating live
theater show. It's going to blow
people's minds and
that's what I want to do. That's what
audiences want. There's a friend of mine
called Alex Edelman who said, "I like
stuff that's ambitious and finished."
And that's kind of where I want to go.
And I feel like that's where audiences
want to be. They want to see something
that's going to rock them, you know, and
and and blow them away. What a target to
aim for to a thing that's going to be
I'm gonna try and make a thing that's
the best night out that anyone's ever
had.
One of the things you said was um just a
couple of moments ago was that you've
seen someone to help you with uh that
kind of fear living in fear state that
we described. What do you mean by you've
seen someone? are just a bit of therapy
to um yeah try and uh
um have like sort of little coping
mechanisms, you know, you sort of just
get you get far enough into it where you
go maybe just have a bit of help now um
to recognize kind of moments of mania
and how to kind of manage them a bit
better. So nothing super exciting. It's
not a shaman
or um you know, it's not any kind of
Iaska or or mushrooms. It's just a bloke
in a in an office.
So, what was your intention when you
went to bloke in the office? um just to
kind of make it a bit easier so that you
weren't
loading it too much so you can still
like you know
work if efficiently without it becoming
debilitating because I think that's the
thing probably a lot of people suffer
from that by using fear as a motivator
sometimes
you're probably losing 20% of your
potential through kind of um panic. So
yeah, it was sort of God, I sound like a
[__] robot when I said that. But you
know what I mean? It was sort of that
thing of like
just trying to figure out, okay, is
there another way of doing this?
Was that?
Uh yeah, it's but even recognizing when
you're um
just a bit fullon and just kind of go,
"All right, just calm down." But I'm a
real sucker for like little quotes, man.
Or I was weirdly I'm interviewing Will
Smith on Thursday.
Oh man.
Which is mad. For 10 minutes. I've got a
10-minute interview with Will Smith.
I'm so jealous. They they emailed me and
said because we have the same publisher
like Will Smith's coming to town. I was
like, "Can I get on the podcast like
he's got no time?"
Yeah.
I'd have loved 10 minutes.
Well, but this is it. Well, I'll sneak
you along, man. Let's do it. See if we
can double up. Well, but but I was
listening to the beginning of his book
and um it's a brilliant story about his
dad made him and his uh brother build a
wall. And it's just this this is very
very simple analogy. You've probably
read it. It's just brick by brick and
that's particularly when you're making a
TV show and you're writing topical jokes
sometimes. Well, it's sometimes it's
really hard to make stories interesting
and to write jokes about things that are
going on. And in that instance this
week, that really helped me brick by
brick and I'm able to kind of go, okay,
yeah, cool. I can I can get stuff from
that. You know, I'm I'm very much a from
a philosophical point of view or a
therapy point of view, I need pointers
and tips to make me better. I'm not a
enjoy every sandwich kind of a guy
because it's a [__] sandwich.
Like I, you know what I mean? Like being
in the sandwich just like it's a [__]
sandwich. Like I I I need I'm very much
kind of eastern philosophy of like okay,
how do we how do we make ourselves
better? I love the idea of kind of sort
of self-improvement and being the best
you. Um, so I find quotes help that, you
know,
and even talking to somebody like that I
am like a bit of an expert, you he he'll
say something or you'll say something
and you kind of unravel a thing. and
even like what we're doing now sort of
having a chat about
the process and I have a um my friend
James Bay uh the singer we particularly
during the dur during COVID we spoke a
lot about uh everything and about
creativity and talking to like-minded
individuals about the pursuit of a joke
or a or a song or a uh any kind of piece
of art I find really really interesting.
I love it. I'm so interested in the way
that musicians create. I'm so envious
because they sit in a cool room or they
go to like this studio and they kind of
write and they jam and they riff and
they create a thing and then they
perform it. Whereas
the musicians I know are very envious of
the way the comedians create which is
you go in front of a crowd and you
create with not for. You know,
it would be like the comparison of like
Chris Martin going in front of a crowd
in Chisik and going, "It was all blue.
Nope." Okay. Uh, it was all green. Nope.
It was all yellow. Yellow. Right. I'll
do yellow tomorrow. And it sort of is
that kind of process. So talking to
different creatives or anyone who is
sort of an expert in managing yourself
is something that I find really
comforting or or you know
like
even I've really got to this guy Andrew
Huberman at the minute he's like a
professor from Stanford and there's all
these kind of
neural linguistic things you can do to
help yourself you know like cold showers
and all this and Wimhof breathing all
this kind of stuff.
Does that stuff work for you?
Maybe it's psychossematic, but yeah, it
feels like it does. Do you know what I
mean? You feel like you've done your
It's like going to the gym. It just
feels like medicine for you, doesn't it?
You always feel like no, no one enjoys
going to the gym, you know? I imagine
Arnold Schwarzenegger did, but most
people are just like, "Right, do it."
And it feels like a nice little tick for
your soul. And it just feels like
therapy is almost well, it's exactly
that, isn't it? It's a workout for your
brain or having a conversation like this
is a really nice workout for your brain
where we're both in kind of like a
strange dream like state where we're
kind of having a deep conversation. Um
we're kind of riffing but somehow
without planning any of this we're
getting to a deeper
place and yet it's very strange cuz
there's people driving listening to us
right now
which is very weird. Do you know what I
mean?
And well, that's the fascinating podcast
in the future, man. And but you're in
the now, aren't you,
Derek left there, but it's sort of that
fascinating thing that you let people
travel to work with you.
It's the coolest.
Yeah. Yeah. It feels like a huge Yeah.
Especially cuz it comes out on Monday as
well. Yeah.
Which is a particularly like interesting
day to be in their ear at 6:00 a.m.
Yeah.
But it's so funny, is it? What the
podcast you listen to? what your what
your go to
if you listen lock me up if you found
out like I listen to like serial killer
podcast yeah like therronos the trial of
Elizabeth Holmes like crime and serial
killers tends to be my like go-to
and you know what it's actually I
probably know why now because I'm so
fascin I do this podcast I'm so
fascinated by people in their psychology
and for me criminals and serial killers
are the most extreme and fascinating
amongst us so I would love to have a
podcast where I could interview serial
killers and be like why did you do that.
Do you know?
Yeah.
It's basically what I'm doing now.
Slightly different fascination. So,
it's just I I get so fascinated by them.
I'm watching these serial killer
documentaries trying to understand the
pattern in what made them like from
their childhood and their dad said this
and then kid on the playground punched
them and then they just started killing
people, you know.
Yeah.
So, yeah. What about you?
Sort of more fantasy football stuff
really.
No, I kind of um Yeah. No, no, no. Yeah,
it's cuz a friend of mine does one. Um,
uh, I, yeah, I listen to Tim Ferrris.
Yeah. And Andrew, uh, Huberman. Um,
those are my go-tos. Marin I really
like.
Yeah. Yeah.
She has some really great interviews.
Um, yeah, I love there's a brilliant
interview with Maron and Seinfeld, which
is one of my favorites. Like I really
got into Jerry Seinfeld during the uh
during the lockdown, which is kind of so
late.
Do you know what I mean? I just feel
like I've gone, "Hey, Radio Head are
good." Um but um but yeah, I kind of
Yeah, that's my thing. I like I like
hearing people that I don't know and
having my mind blown. That's what I like
about podcast. I'm not into serial. I
find it too
Do you know what I mean? Too
too icky for me.
What? And you call yourself murderinos,
don't you?
Is that the name? If you're if you're a
big fan, you're a murderino.
Oh, really? Wow. I fit in. Yeah. Um, one
of the things you you're touching on
there about these kind of practical
hacks and quotes and stuff that allow
you to kind of get to a better place
reminded me of something that I read
about you regarding your pre performance
routine and superstitions. Yeah.
Before you're going up on stage and
there's, you know, 15,000 people out
there and they're all got their arms
folded and demanding you to make them
laugh, what are you doing backstage to
get yourself in this state you you need
to to perform at your optimal? So if
it's arenas, we get a football and we
just have a kick around. Um
really?
Yeah. Yeah. So we just sort of do keep
you ups and you got to do 10 before you
go on stage
between Oh, okay. So
So me, Kumar, and Pete. Um and then
Steve and we'll try. We got to do 10
keepy ups before we go on stage. Can't
really do that if you're doing a small
club. Um there's a brilliant comedy club
called Top Secret in in London. And um
it's very very small. And before that
you I'm literally in an alley that
stinks of piss um looking at notes. So,
so it's it's always looking at notes,
thinking what you're going to do,
sort of trying to be calm to listen to
that inner voice that says, "Hey, you
could also do this." And that kind of
weird
kind of um funny that just appears from
nowhere. There's always the best way of
starting a gig. Um,
and that's it really. But there isn't
really a psyking up process. I I'll like
watch if I'm doing a big show, I'll
watch my friend who's who's supporting
me. Um see what get sneak in the back of
the theater or the arena and get a feel
for them and um and then just go for it.
Why keep you ups? Is that just a tra
tradition or is it like a
No, it's just it's sort of if you're
there, yeah, there's maybe it's just
that weird thing of like, right, I've
done 10, I can, you know, and then if
you don't do 10 the first time and it
falls, you got to do 20 and if it falls
30. So, do you know what I mean? So, you
have to do it and then it becomes this
weird uh like little thing. You just
don't want that in the back of your
head. You can't do a big gig going,
"Shit, man, I only did 24s."
So, superstition.
Yeah. like yeah and I just
and I kind of like I spend a lot of time
with my tour manager Kumar, the mighty
Kumar Kamelagarin
um and um just chatting about stuff and
just being kind of loose and sort of
yeah just sort of getting in the zone of
being silly and and just talking about
any old bollocks to try and sort of get
things going or you know it's like if my
brother comes on tour with me that's
always fun because it's kind of there
there'll just be a bit of a bit of
nothing kind of happening and like yeah
so I like sort of just hanging out and
chatting talking bollocks and um sort of
loosening yourself up really that's kind
of what I do beforehand.
This is a very um I don't know why this
question came into my head but tends to
be the kind of things I ask on this
podcast. What was the lowest moment of
your life?
What was the lowest moment of my life?
I think when my when my granddad died
that was like I was it was yeah it was
awful and I was incredibly lucky because
I how old was I think I was 36
when granddad died and um
he I'd never had anyone in my family um
well my cousin Shane had died when I was
18 and um but I'd never been to a
funeral so it was Shane and and granddad
So there'd been this huge gap where
nobody died and um you know this sort of
beautiful family that I belong to they
were all kind of there and my granddad
was sort of like unbelievably
special kind of man. He was 4 foot nine
and um just funny and warm and ju just
like a quintessential granddad. But like
he gr he got me into football. So I used
to watch football with granddad and
watch match of the day and he'd make me
and Daniel toast. You know that thick
white bread and he'd kind of like make
us some granddad toast. And he's just a
brilliant, brilliant
soul that just was s such a big part of
my life that he and they used to come
and see us quite a lot and whenever he
was there I don't know he was you were
just bathed in his love like him and him
and my nan just adored me and I adored
them and it was they used to have a
poster of of me on their uh on their
wall um and they used to and nan used to
keep all the all the reviews I'd get.
So, she'd put them up like and it was
just that lovely thing. There was some
really some lovely reviews and some
shitty ones, too. And it was just like,
man, why you don't take that? What are
you talking about? But but they and they
used to watch me on TV. And I come from
a a family where it's inconceivable
that that I could be on TV from from the
family that I come from. It's it's you
know it's like going to the moon but
because nan and grand said we'd watch
you on a TV mind we we'd watch it with
the volume down you'd have swear so they
would watch me when I was doing good
news or I was on mock the week with the
volume down
our wrestler on the box and just sort of
see me kind of like that and but they
were so
through every part of my life I I felt
utter love from my nana and my granddad
and they were around forever and and
it's it's that thing where
I don't know for whatever reason he was
like this sage and my there's a
beautiful photo of my cousin Shane who
who who died when he was he was 18 and
he was on a scrambler motorbike and our
granddad when we were about eight just
used to look at that and just go there
you go that is the bravest bloody boy
you've ever seen in your life. And it
was like
sort of a really interesting
um
story cuz he he had cancer and he died
of cancer and he he went on this sort of
scrambler and he did this race and he
was he completed it even though he he
was really not well at all and and our
granddad told that with such pride and
it was this beautiful story and that's
what and grandad and you knew Grer told
similar stories obviously not as
beautiful as that about all of us and
and um yeah when he died it was just
this sledgehammer to your heart where
you just go Jesus one of the one of the
one of the good souls isn't here anymore
and yet this is the the fascination of
life I was in Mexico and it happened and
my mom rang me up and said granddad's
dead I like
just low and
Um,
literally seconds later there was a
there was a Mexican man just going
and it was just like [__] me, the
universe is funny, man.
So, it was like utter sadness and then
something
and it was um yeah, it was just this
weird like moment where you're like
going [__] really really. Um, so
yeah, that was the that was definitely
an unbelievably low moment and yet
weirdly became
at his funeral this beautiful moment
where you were, like I said at the
beginning where you feel privileged to
belong to the blood you belong to. You
know, I've never done Who do you think
you are? I know who I am. I'm, you know,
I know where I come from and I know my
people and I feel proud to belong to
those people. Um,
and the funeral of my grandma was just
this reminder of the excellence of my
family and how proud and how much we all
love each other. So from that deep
sadness
came this reflection of my granddad and
you realize that everyone in this room
were there because of his brilliance. So
it was this kind of weirdly bittersweet
moment, you know. M and my cousin L um
my cousin Stuart wore a leather jacket
and looked like [__] love joy and
nobody understood and everyone's like
why you wearing a leather jacket? Oh we
know we didn't have a suit and we were
carrying granddad in the coffin and
Daniel was like nice jackets due and our
[__] shoulders start going because
it's like you know like oh mate and
everyone's like are they going to laugh
and we're like [__] hold it together
hold it and then um yeah 6 weeks later
my nan died and uh it was horrific. Six
weeks later.
Yeah. 6 weeks later. And then we went to
the um went to the funeral again and
Stuart rocked up with that same leather
jacket and you're like, "Fuck me, man."
And you could see everybody just looking
down going, "God, don't laugh. Why is he
wearing a [__] leather?" He literally
rocked up like Hasselhoff. You're like,
"Put a suit." But it was weirdly funny
and you could everyone go, "Fuck, he's
wear [__] leather jacket on Jesus
Christ, what's [__] wrong with it,
man." Um like it was all flapping and
that. Um, but and I I had to do the
eulogy for my granddad as well. And that
is something I put deep deep deep deep
time into to make it and I you know and
obviously you can't get it right. You
can't express what he meant to you. But
um yeah, that was the that was a long
answer to the lowest moment. But yeah,
they they say um people can pass away
from heartbreak.
Yeah.
is for for your grandmother to die six
weeks following
Yeah, I think Yeah, I think they would
they would, you know, joined at the hip.
Yeah, they used to just kind of
Yeah, yeah, maybe it was that it was
just kind of Yeah, it was just but also
there was such constants and I just
wasn't I'd never really been exposed to
death and it was just this kind of like
to for it to arrive quite late in your
life. It was just a real like whoa.
Yeah. And then you lo then and then
you've suddenly lost your nan and your
granddad who would kind of like we we
got like my nana is particularly just
such a lovely she's got proper sort of
blue gray owly eyes you know and she's
always started tucking her sort of shirt
down and she just come in and just tell
you little she goes just weird little
[__] so I remember doing my dissertation
she was staying around her house and
she's like what are you doing I said I'm
doing a a um I'm doing my dissertation
now and she said what about I said it
was about whether it's right or wrong to
advertise to children.
And my nan went it's not like that. I
kind of went, "Well, I got to do 10,000
words." So, you know, it's not though,
is it? Come on, come and have your tea.
I was like, I can't just put it's not
Nancy Veil. I got to do this. But she
was very strange. We used to make
flapjacks together as kids as when I was
a kid. And she was obviously manan, but
um we didn't like flapjacks.
And but we used to just make them as a
thing and then put them in the bin.
[__] weird. Yeah, I know. Yeah. And
the reason we kept doing it is because
it really annoyed my mom because she's
like, "What are you doing? Jesus Christ,
what's wrong with you?" And then she
would get the flapjacks out the bin. And
that was funny watching my mom eat
flapjacks from a bin. I got a weird
family, man. But but um yeah, those were
the uh I wonder if she did die from
heartache. I don't know. I mean she you
know they weren't particularly well
towards the end of their life as well.
They sort of had uh kind of you know the
certainly the beginnings of dementia. So
um yeah it was kind of you know it's
that horrible thing where
yeah I don't know it's just kind of yuck
and it you know. How about you? What was
the lowest moment in your life? Am I
allowed to ask?
Yeah. Um the lowest moment of my life.
Good question.
Is it shitty to ask you?
No, it's No, like if if I can ask
someone else, they have to ask me. I
don't even It's a really interesting
question. Um
I think it would probably be ah no, I
know when it is. Well, it's the one that
kind of stands out to me as really
sucking. So my my grandmother dying was
one of them, but I wasn't close to her,
right?
So it was just actually seeing my dad
upset, seeing your like dad cry for the
first time was a very like
Yeah. That isn't that a If you Have you
got a strong dad?
Yeah. Strong. Yeah. Never seen him be
emotional at all.
Yeah. That's the weirdest thing, isn't
it?
Quiet, passive, just and then, you know,
to see him cry is
Yeah.
That's very difficult to understand as a
kid.
And then the other one is actually when
my dad called me into his bedroom and
told me he didn't love my mom.
Oh wow.
And that they were going to get a
divorce. And they didn't get a divorce.
They're still together now. But at
seven, I think I was when he said that
to me, it was like earth like foundation
shattering information that I couldn't I
don't know why I always remember that.
I don't know. I always recall that when
you know it's like I could never forget
that moment in my life.
What do you meant to do with that at
seven?
[__] exactly like
especially when it doesn't even happen.
But um their relationship for me was so
toxic as a kid that I actually got to a
point later where I'd come to terms with
the illusion being burst that your
parents actually might not stick
together and then I was actually willing
them to get a divorce because they were
just screaming at each other too much.
So
I think that's probably that's for some
reason those two moments came to mind.
Um if I told you that you could never
write a joke again and you could never
perform again.
Yeah.
What would happen to you? What
I don't know. It's
I think you'd go back to you I'd end up
being what I was when I was younger of
just desperately trying to make people
laugh and and just sort of I'd just be a
a bit of a nuisance at Tesco. Do you
know what I mean? When you kind of get
in your shop, you're like, "Are you
right? I was looking at the sperm donor
the other day. Oh yeah, she live 6'4."
Like, you know what I mean? It's kind
of, you know, so I think
why I don't know. I just like making
people laugh. I like I like be
I like it makes me feel good and it it
um
Yeah, it just makes me feel good. I I
kind of It's like I say, it feels like
you're giving them a socially accepted
orgasm every time they laugh. So, you're
literally going going around making
people come.
Why don't
Tesco mean Imagine making someone come
in Tesco? But why? Why don't I?
Every little help.
Here we go.
But why don't
That's the new advert for Christmas.
Um, sorry. Go on. Carry on. What were
you going to say?
But why don't why do you have that that
need and I like I don't. So if you said
to me I could never write a joke again
or I could never, you know, perform
comedy again.
I would fine like my life would be
unchanged. But for you, yours would be
it'd be like an irritant.
And like what's what's the difference?
Well, it's the same as you. like saying,
you know, you can't you can't have your
own business.
Yeah.
You got to So, you've got to work for
somebody else.
So, how how does that how does that
feel?
For me, it's it's a definite loss of
purpose. For me, it's like a huge loss
of purpose. Um, not so much working for
someone else, but not being able to like
build
Yeah. do what I do professionally. It
would be this huge sense of like loss of
purpose. I might move on to like doing
shows or like just writing books all the
time or something else. But from a com
comedic perspective, it's like what
you're doing is like very reliant on
feedback of sorts.
So I'm wondering where that's like
coming from is that you know we kind of
touched on it earlier in the
conversation. It's just
yeah it's been s it's been such a clear
consistent coping mechanism in the
toughest moments of your life evidently
um that it makes me ponder
how you would cope without that coping
mechanism dealing with the reality of
life you
yeah but I think that's why I sort of
said laughter is the lubricant that
makes life liveable life is life is
tough and laughter provides restbite um
for me and it
and and that's and It's so deeply human.
Everyone has has irrespective of whether
you have a an easy blessed life,
everyone has had moments of trials and
tribulations and laughter is just a it's
a it's a thing that soothes us and I I
find it particularly soothing that you
take the the sting out of pain by just
making
making it funny. Do you know what I
mean? And it's kind of it just works for
me. I just find laughing
or making people laugh just the best
because you in in the moment of laughter
you're lost. You are not of this realm.
You you're you're kind of in this p
white noise space. Um
and it's good. It's it's a it's a good
place to be.
Escapism almost exactly.
Yeah. But but Exactly. You see, and then
you come back to kind of reality and
you're you're a little bit more
reconfigured or you it lightens the load
a bit, you know, and and and I
get a deep sense of satisfa satisfaction
from making people laugh. So, and you're
right, it is tied up in them. You know,
it's very needy. That's absolutely true.
But then,
you know, I'm 41 now and I kind of know
who I am. I'm I'm kind of needy. most
comics are because I've been asked to
write sort of my autobiography quite a
few times and it's like I just don't
feel like sitting and entertaining
myself. Um
whereas when you're writing standup,
you're writing it for an audience so you
can perform or you're making notes and
you go, "Hey, I'll take that on stage
and I'll kind of riff it out and figure
it out with them." Whereas a book to me
just feels like it would be I don't
think I've got the skills to sit down
and try and
entertain myself and then eventually
entertain people through the book.
Do you know what I Like I did a thing
last year where we went to Australia and
New Zealand uh during the pandemic um
because we were doing some gigs out
there and we stayed in a hotel for two
weeks and we made a standup show that
blended me meeting people alongside
standup and it was it was one of the
most satisfying things I've ever done.
We met these incredible women in New
Zealand. There's a thing called the
coffin club. And what they do is, I
didn't know this. Turns out um uh dying
is really expensive and coffins are
really pricey. And what these retired
pensioners do, they make cheap coffins
and they kind of sell them for like, you
know, 300 bucks, really kind of low,
don't make any profit. So these
beautiful funeral elves and they make
their own coffins as well um just for as
a bit of fun. And I met this lady and
she'd made three coffins for herself and
I was like, "How comes you made three?"
He's like, "I just keep putting on
weight." And and it was so touching and
peculiar
and and then we went into another room
and there were little baby coffins, tiny
tiny. And it's one of those things that
you I hope nobody ever sees that. And I
was like, "How?" And people often say,
"Oh, comedy, hardest job in the world."
Can you imagine making a coffin for a
baby? It blew my mind. And I looked at
this twinkly eyed lady. I was like, "How
do you do that? How do you get yourself
in a place to to make something that
sad? And she kind of looked at me and
just went, I do it so no one else has
to. And it was so beautiful. And for me,
I I loved being able to tell that story
through standup with her on the show.
And I don't know if I have the skills to
tell that story
um through words on a page. Yeah. Do you
know what I mean? I'm sort of aware
of a
an ability I have as a communicator to
make a story like that deeply human. I
could tell that in front of anybody and
it gets to their heart. It's so pure.
And there's so many stories out there
like that that the trying to find those
examples of magnificence
um I find endlessly interesting. But you
don't find them if you sat down writing
a book.
You got to get out there and you you
you've kind of got to put yourself in
peculiar situations. I met a lady that
goes Yahi hunting. Turns out there's a
Yahi is a big 8 foot sort of like
abominable snowman in Australia. Uh that
he lives just outside Brisbane. She was
absolutely wonderful, right? You know,
mad as a box of frogs, but beautiful.
And she was like, "Yeah, what we do? Put
some cigarettes out and some beer. That
should lure him in." Like, so she puts
this big jacket on me and she goes,
"Yeah, and you might want to make the
mating noise." And I'm like, "What? How
does that go?" And she's like sort of
like I'm kind of inching in the field
going
and she's like, "Yeah, you're doing
really well." And then I p panic because
I start going, "What if this is real?"
And suddenly this eight-foot bloke comes
along and [__] me like that and and I'm
sort of dragged off and you're like and
and then it was so and I was telling her
this and we're laughing and it's funny
that that again those stories I love
trying to find those stories. So I feel
like I don't have enough stories yet to
sit down and tell them all.
And the great thing about standup, you
can rotate your stories. You go, "Hey,
do you want to hear this? Hey, do you
want to hear that?" you know, or things
can happen from nowhere. My brother is
an ex like we were we were having a
conversation with a friend of mine
recently and from nowhere my brother
goes, "Uh, what?" Cuz he was, this bloke
was talking about his friend. He goes,
"Yeah, he's a vet." My brother goes,
"Yeah, to be a vet, you got to shoot a
can in the face." And I'm like, "What's
he talking about?" He goes, "Yeah, it's
the only way you can be a vet if you
shot a cow in the face." I said, "Is it
what?" So they do six years of school
and then right at the end they give him
a Smith and Wesson and they blast him in
the face and he's like, "Well, don't
give him that you thick fuck." They give
him a bolt gun, not going to shoot him
with a rifle. [__] [__] Like that.
So we're having this kind of
conversation and I'm like, "What are you
talking about?" Goes, "True. Ke told
me." Oh, KZ told Yeah, he knows. Knows a
vet. Shot him in the face. So like that.
Now, weirdly, a month later, I'm doing a
gig in Leicester. There's a guy chatting
away and he's he's a he's a vet. And I
go, "Listen, I got to ask, did they make
you shoot cows in the face?" And he
goes, "Yeah, yeah, we have to." It's one
of the things the [__] was right. So I
ring my brother up in the middle of this
gig. There's 2,000 people there. I ring
him up and I'm like, put him on speaker
on the phone. I go, "You're right." He
goes, "Yeah, what?" And I go, "I'm just
in Leicester. I'm at a gig. Are you?"
And I go, "Um, yeah, you know that thing
you were saying about cow and vets?"
"Yeah, it turns out you were right." And
he went, "Yeah, I know." And he goes,
"Listen, I've got to I'm watching Vigil
like that [__] off. But that was the
correct story for that night is is my
point that that that sometimes
and it was so hilarious in that moment.
It couldn't have been more perfect.
And then all the ushers that work there
and go that was planned right. But it
was but it only came about because me
and my brother were with friends of mine
in Exat. He told a man's story. I had an
argument with him. We all laughed cuz my
brother was talking [__] what's he on
about? A month later, I meet, you know,
a vet. He
agrees with my brother
and um
and we have a moment of of magic. And
it's and it's the funny thing that
that's all anyone would remember from
that show. Um and I I I don't have the
skills to do that through sitting on on
my own. I would be too excited to tell
people the story. Quick one. As you
probably know by now, I'm trying to make
my life a little bit more sustainable.
And I consider myself to be on a bit of
a sustainability journey in the same way
that I'm on a health journey. And it's a
privilege to be able to share that with
all of you. And you you all know if
you've listened to the last podcast that
I traded in my Range Rover Sport in for
an electric bicycle, which is now my
only vehicle. And next year hopefully
I'll have my electric car 2 if Tesla
hurry up with a Cybertruck. And that's
where my energy comes into my life and
my sort of sustainability journey. It
makes your life if you are on that
sustainability journey 10 times easier.
This is one of their, if you can't see
this, I'm holding it in my hand. If
you're listening on Spotify or Apple,
this is one of their renewable energy
products. If you're watching on YouTube,
you'll you'll you'll see this. This is
called the Harvey. It's this very clever
little device that allows the Zappy and
the Eddi, which I've talked about before
on this podcast, to be installed into
your home without hard wiring or without
batteries or without those um god-awful
transformers that a lot of people have
in their house. It's basically a tiny
device that's going to save you both
time and money. And for someone like me
who doesn't have loads of time on our
hands, it's a real lifesaver. If you're
looking to make a conscious switch and
you need a quick fix that's going to
save you a load of time, then head over
to my energy.com to see this product and
many, many more. So, Patrice Evra,
yes.
Who sat there before Jimmy Car said one
day his girlfriend turned to him and was
like, "Are you happy?" And he and at
first he like resisted that question cuz
it makes people feel a little bit
uncomfortable. But um yeah, are you
happy?
Um
yeah, at this moment, yeah, I've really
enjoyed this chat like deeply and um I
feel pumped up and energized. So yeah,
but it's back to what I'm saying. I'm
kind of I need the energy of others to
make me happy. You referred when I asked
that question, you referred to this
moment as if happiness was more of a
mood in your view versus then like a
long-lasting state.
If we say if we were to say that it was
a state, a long-lasting sort of the
baseline, would you say you're happy?
Um,
yeah. I I'd say I have more I have more
moments of happiness than sadness. And
then so but but I'm in a state of flux
with that. like, you know, I can be
super low and super
uh
sort of
depressed about, oh, [__] hell, the
jokes are [__] this week in the show.
God, I've got I haven't got the stuff,
you know what I mean? So, I kind of I
can let things get on top of me. Um, but
I have more moments of happiness than
sadness, I think.
Have you ever experienced what they call
like depression, like clinical
depression?
Um,
in your view? I don't know. I don't
think so. Um I,
you know, I have moments of like where
you can't, you know, but you're sort of
aware you need to shift it, but I'm very
much a right get on the treadmill, lift
some weights. Um kind of u do something
kind of a guy. I'm restless,
you know. Um but uh yeah, I've never
been, you know, diagnosed or anything
like that, but uh but yeah, how about
you? You happy?
It's such a heavy question.
It's a really heavy question. I remember
the first time my uh
[__] Patrice Evra.
Yeah, I know, right? Yeah.
What an interesting, fascinating bloke
he is as well. Criy
remarkable, remarkable guy.
Am I happy? Um I remember the first time
I was asked it and it felt really
uncomfortable and I felt defensive about
the question.
Yeah.
My PA, who was also my girlfriend at the
time, many years a long story. We won't
go into that. Um she asked me in the car
one day. She was like, "Are you happy?"
I was like, "How dare you?" I think
that's my No, of course not. But that's
I think like my ego inside my chimp
brain probably was like how [__] d
like of course I am. Um
I believe so. Yeah, I believe so. Um and
one of the things that I has helped me a
lot is I'm very obsessed with gratitude
and like constantly reminding myself of
like how unbelievably fortunate I am to
be one of the free ones. And what I mean
by that is like financially free, free
to do what I choose to most days. Um, of
course I have days where it sucks and my
mood's shitty and like I'm irritable and
I'm a bit of an [__] to be around,
but um I feel I feel somewhat content um
despite my relentless uh excruciating
ambition.
Yeah. Yeah, that's a very good answer.
I'll take that one.
Okay. Your manager said you're you're
the hardest working comic he's he's ever
met,
right? Yeah. Well, I just like
is that toxic people in this in our
society at the moment of there's this
kind of stigma around people that work
too hard that it's you know toxic
productivity or
Yeah. But it's it's sort of you know you
you work at something you love. So it's
kind of like you know
it's it's sort of those moments of like
you you just lose yourself in it. It's
like I imagine it's the same with when
Picasso
was painting. Do you know what I mean?
He was just probably like, "This is
fun." Like, do you know what I mean?
Like I you know, imagine his I'm not
comparing myself to Picasso. I'm using
him as an example of just sort of
imagine his his manager going, "You need
to [__] relax, mate." Do you know
what I mean? The Sistines Chapel. But
it's just I don't know. I just I I love
it. And I don't um I don't mind working
hard. It's all And it's also It's not
It's not working in the in the true
sense like you just said, how fortunate
to be one of the free ones. What? Like
it's ridiculous. Like I'm I write the t
I write stand up on my own, but my do I
do my TV show and I write it with um
five people and um we get to write
jokes. That is our job. There's an
unbelievably privileged job to be able
to sit around
and think of funny things for people and
that can be stressful. But there are
people working in um in jobs that they
don't like that would kill for that
opportunity. So you're right, you need
those moments to kind of snap yourself
out of your funk and um and remember
that you're getting paid to do a hobby
ultimately, you know, in my case. Um
and in mine like this is
Yeah, totally. But but but but my point
being it's sort of like
there's no there's nothing wrong with
having low moments and everyone does and
it feels like the world is better
now in terms of being able to talk about
them.
But you also I think if you come from a
certain background you don't want to
[__] and moan about yourself and kind
of say that you're having a tough time
or whatever. But if you're lucky enough
to have friends that you can talk to um
or things like this or a therapist or
whatever, it just m it makes the pursuit
of happiness a lot easier. I think cuz I
think that is pos maybe that's what
happiness is. It's about talking
for long enough to realize what you
have. Whether that is a loving
relationship, whether it's a job you
love, whether it's a hobby you adore,
but there there will always be sort of
shimmering lights of hope in in the
misery. But sometimes somebody has to
help you find them, I think. Do you know
what I mean? Because I think it's very
difficult to sit within yourself and go,
"Yeah, I can see everything's fine."
Sometimes you need a little bit of help
to kind of remind you of how lucky you
are.
Your upcoming Netflix special, you
called it Lubricant. I now know why.
Yeah. Yeah.
But tell me what we can expect from this
special and and how it was conceived and
what makes it, you know, I guess worth
watching.
Wow. Um, it is the best
stories and jokes that I've written in
the last two years from traveling around
the world. I did a a a tour that was
called Restbite
and I kind of put together all the best
bits about kind of conspiracy theories
and uh uh COVID and leadership and
madness in the world and I sort of
spludged it all together and the
you never quite know what it is until
you sort of step away from it and I
think it's actually a love letter to
laughter. That's what the show is. And
it's the the full hour is about the the
importance of of giggling and of being
silly and
how deeply human it is and
and it should be treasured. There's a
bit in the in the special where I I was
chatting about, you know, when you hear
somebody play a musical instrument and
you're envious of the notes they're
making. It strikes me that laughter is a
musical instrument that any one of us
can play
and now is not the time to put down our
[__] trumpets.
And it that's what if that's the show
really. It's about the importance of
laughter and and and the role it plays
in which we do life. Um, and it's lots
of funny stories that are kind of all
about that really.
You talked about how as a comedian you
have to kind of have this like
self-evolution.
Uhhuh.
What what evolution in the comedian that
you are in this special lubricant
have have you observed in yourself? um
I'm slower and I'm um more thoughtful
and I try and make it more
interesting for people sat at home than
in the room. I think previously I've
been a bit too kind of high octane and
I'm trying to kind of make it
pleasurable for people at home so they
can sit and enjoy it because that's how
it ultimately is consumed. I have a
fascination with anger and I have a
fascination with with beauty. I don't
like so I find anger strange and I find
beauty beguiling and that is only
getting deeper and deeper. So for
example that story about the ladies in
the coffins that isn't in this show but
it's it's somewhere deep in me and I
think that will come out in another
show. So, it's sort of the evolution as
a comedian for me is that I want the
next special and the next tour that I do
to be deeply human and I want it to be
this in in in in in the best sense a
place where you can [__] nod with me
and laugh with me and feel like this
connection with people next to you. And
I think that comes through the ex
through through exploring how [__]
weird and silly we all are. I think I
think the world's taking itself very
seriously at the moment. And um there's
so much humor in it. I think there's so
much humor in the
on the edges on in the in the shades of
serious stuff. Do you know what I mean?
I kind of find it uh
yeah that's kind of what that's where it
feels like my evolution is that I'm
trying to kind of I try and talk about
you know I quite like being able to talk
about serious stuff for example you know
we you know talk about cancel culture or
woke like the amount of times you hear
the word woke in newspapers at the
minute it's because it just sells it
sells papers man and it's kind of like
hey have you seen what they've done you
you can't say the word farts and and
boobies and ass in scrabble That's a
story in the newspaper and it was like
furious as woke Scrabble bosses. No
one's furious about Scrabble. No one's
like just and even if they were doing
that, how are they going to police it?
No one's going to, you know, break into
your house and go just put [__] on a
triple letter. They're not going to do
that. So I find that mechanism really
interesting at the moment that that that
you go okay clearly there's money to be
made in kind of you won't [__]
believe what they've done now that in in
in that energy but but also recognizing
that it's just a trick fake outrage.
It's fake outrage and it's kind of it's
the what next brigade and I but I find
that really interesting.
That was like Pierce Morgan's whole
thing for a while on TV. It was like
they've changed toilets to unisex
[__]
Yeah. but because it it sort of like it
just it works. It's easy. It's click and
then you and you're there. But it's kind
of not it's just not nourishing. And
there is actually a way of of of making
the people that are that succumb to that
and the people that think it's [__]
you can bring them together through
really piss funny stories. Um or true
like that story about the coffin and the
the lady
doesn't doesn't matter your political
orientation, doesn't matter your gender,
whatever.
That's a deeply funny human story. And
like you look at someone like Billy
Connelly like like some of his bits are
so beautiful and funny or George Carlin
that that that they're
they're majestic and and you're kind of
lost and I think there's a real value to
to humor and it's it's often overlooked
because it is silly and it is kind of
fart piss [__] [__] you know what I
mean? It's kind of you know what I mean?
It's fingers and ears and Mhm. Yeah.
But it it it's it's a release and it's
kind of
it's a deeply important thing. Laughter
deeply deeply important. And if we
didn't have it, you know, like I think
it's only like dolphins and rats are the
only animals that laugh. I don't know
how scientists found that out. Oh, no. I
do actually. They tickled the rat's
bellies with a pencil. This is
presumably precoid.
Do you know what I mean? Imagine that if
it's just kind of vaccine. I'm busy just
trying to trying to get this rat to
giggle. But um but yeah,
so that's lubricant. That's is it
December 14th?
December the 14th comes out and it was
restbite. Um that's it's the it was the
show restbite and then right at the last
minute I decided to call it lubricant.
Uh but that becomes a I mean we all know
now listening to this why it's called
that but it's kind of 40 minutes in you
go all right
there might be some furious perverts
who are kind of going this is where's
there's absolutely nothing here about
like about Vaseline
about KY jelly this is it's bereft of
any lubricational
I hope someone writes in leaves a review
this is not what you think it is
it's absolutely disgusting I was [__]
outraged
and then you've got until the wheels
come off as well which is documentary.
So yeah, so until the wheels come off is
a documentary about making a standup
special throughout the co pandemic. So
yeah, it was kind of
uh yeah, sort of cameras followed us
around and tried to,
you know, like we did gigs in football
stadiums and car parks and
crazy.
Yeah, it was brilliant. Nuts. But we did
uh Ashton Gate uh which is the home of
Bristol City. Um and we had to get 2,000
people in a uh 10,000 seater stand. They
all had to be spread out and it was one
of the weirdest gigs I've ever done, but
it's one of the best.
And that comes out on the same day.
So the the the dock is on the same day
as the special. So yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
We have one I'm I'm excited for both. I
actually did get the chance to watch the
trailer. All right.
And it was hilarious. And it's um I'm
particularly excited to see someone with
your smarts and both comedic genius and
intellect take on recent times. Does
that make sense? I'm most excited about
and uh so really really looking forward
to that on December 14th. We have a a
long-standing tradition on this podcast
where the previous guest as I mentioned
writes a question for the next guest. So
Patrice wrote, "Are you happy?" Because
that was the question that stumbled
upon.
I don't I'm not going to say who the
person was that's written this for you.
Okay.
But I'm going to tell you what the um
the question is. Um,
what three things would you give to the
world you can only answer with single
words to make it happier?
Jesus. Not that. Um,
that's one.
What three things would I give to the
world to make it happier?
You can only answer with one one
words answers.
I mean, this is a real reverse Aladdin
moment, isn't it?
Um,
a fixed climate.
You know that's two words but
you know
fine fine
that's the first thing
technology that stops
mental health.
So you zap them.
Okay
then they're fine. It's a sort of a wand
you wave at them.
Mental health wand.
Yeah. So yeah a mental a mental Yeah. So
that fixed climate mental health wand
and
food. Food.
Yeah. Yeah. I feel like fixed climate,
mental health wand, food
end starvation.
And starvation.
It will end starvation.
Yes. Right.
And starvation.
No. No. I was going to say [__] me. I
give I take now. I'm going to ask you to
do the same. I But before I do that, I
just want to say a huge thank you for
coming today cuz I've watched you on
screen for many, many, many a years. I
find you hysterical. But also I I love
this opportunity to get to know a side
of you that I wouldn't have ordinarily
seen on screen because of the the way
that you know the format of TV and a
depth in you and you're just again
you're super smart, super introspective.
You're a genius clearly and um you're
doing a service to the world which is
clearly so unbelievably selfless in
cheering people up at a time when they
really need it that I feel like the
comedians amongst us who are lubricating
us through these hard times are national
treasures at the moment. So thank you.
Oh mate, what a sweet thing. I need you
to come home and um say that whenever
I'm having problems with my wife.
We'll send you the audio so you could do
that.
But it's time to write a question.
[Music]